h1. scoped_search

This simple plugin will make it easy to search your ActiveRecord models. 

h2. Installation

You can enable scoped_search as a Ruby gem. First, you have to install the gem on your system.
@@@
gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
sudo gem install wvanbergen-scoped_search
@@@

Now, you must enable the gem in your environment.rb configuration
@@@
  config.gem 'wvanbergen-scoped_search', :lib => 'scoped_search'
@@@

You can use scoped_search as a Rails plugin as well, but this is deprecated. Simply download or
clone scoped_search into your vendor/plugin directory of your project.

h2. Usage

@@@ 
class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
	searchable_on :name, :description
end

Project.search_for(params[:q]).each { |project| ... }
@@@

This functionality is build on named_scope. The searchable_on statement creates 
a named_scope "search_for". Because of this, you can actually chain the call with
other scopes. For example, this can be very useful if you only want to search in 
projects that are accessible by a given user.

@@@
class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
	searchable_on :name, :description
	named_scope :accessible_by, lambda { |user| ... }
end

# using chained named_scopes and will_paginate
Project.accessible_by(current_user).search_for(params[:q]).paginate(:page => params[:page], :include => :tasks)
@@@

The search query language is simple. It supports these constructs:
 - words: some search keywords
 - phrases: "a single search phrase"
 - negation: "look for this" -"but do not look for this phrase and this" -word



This Rails plugin is written by Willem van Bergen for the Floorplanner.com website. 
It is released under the MIT license. Please contact me if you have any suggestions 
or remarks.